Greetings to all esteemed Dharma friends. Dear
Dharma friends, today we are back with our
regular Dharma discussion session of the Golden Chrysanthemum Club,
practicing the Six Harmonies. Today we
will explore
demons, their scents, and
their physical forms. Please join hands and recite the
Buddha's name for protection.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni,
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Dear Dharma friends, all
around us, the
Buddha taught that there are other kinds of
beings, such as the hungry ghosts, the Yakshas, ​​the spirits,
and the many celestial beings. There are
many spiritual realms
around us. Today, with a clear mind and a contemplative gaze, I will
share with you a sutra from the "
Questions and Answers" sutra that our teacher, Venerable Thich Chu
Thai Minh, has taught us.
Today, I will only discuss
one point in this sutra,
number
159. Why not?  Seeing the corpse of the
Yaksha, the King of Milinda asked the Venerable
Nagasena if the Yaksha was also a type of
living being in this world. The
Venerable
Nagasena replied, "Yes." The
King then asked, "Does the Yaksha
also grow old and die like us?"
He meant, "Is it also born, just like us, that is, born?" The King of Milinda asked, "Yes."
The Venerable Nagasena replied, "
Yes." The King then asked, "Yaksha also grows old and dies, so why is it that
after they die,
no one sees their corpses?" "
All living beings, like humans, oxen, cows,
chickens, ducks, birds, and snakes, when they die, their corpses rot and
stink, but where are the corpses of the Yaksha? Why is it that
no one recognizes them? Or do the corpses
of the Yaksha not stink?" "
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, because
we are also like that,"
the King of Milinda said.  So, if you don't
see the corpse of a demon, you might not
believe that demons exist. We
call them demons because
we don't see them, we don't
see their corpses. Therefore,
we think logically according to
our own understanding, according to our
knowledge. Because
all the books taught by
scientists
only teach about animals, about
animal corpses,
how these animals live, their disease processes,
and their death processes. So
when we study, we learn about
worldly knowledge, what we call
science.
We see that if there are
living beings, there must
be dead bodies of living beings.
But if there are non-existent beings, we
don't see their corpses,
so we don't believe in the existence of
demons.
King Amitabha also asked the same question.
In reality, we are
often
asked
these questions by those around us. They might say we are superstitious and deluded, that there are no ghosts or demons anywhere, and ask us to show them to the
ghosts. That means we
have a preconceived notion: that if we do
n't see something with our physical eyes, we
consider it nonexistent.
Let's continue reading to see
how the venerable Ananda answers
the question that King Minanda
asked. He asks the same question many
people ask us. To understand how
we should
answer, the venerable Ananda replied: "Your Majesty,
there are three types of Yakshas: celestial Yakshas,
demon Yakshas, ​​and various types of Yakshas that sometimes act as demons and sometimes as celestial beings,
depending on their karma.
There is one type of Yakhas that
sometimes acts as a celestial being and sometimes as a
demon. All Yakshas are of the transformative type,
meaning they are born through transformation,
not through egg-born, womb-born,
or damp-born beings. Beings born through
egg-born and damp-born beings have physical bodies."
Because of their coarse nature, the birth and death of beings are
perceptible to our eyes. However, the
transformed beings, whose bodies are composed of the four elements, are subtle and invisible to the eye. Demons, belonging to the transformed realm, are born without our sight or smell. It's understandable that we can smell the foul odor. Reverend fellow practitioners, today we have heard
the answer from the Venerable Saint Na-Tien, and
we now have the knowledge to
answer those
around us who might question us about our delusions.
If demons truly exist,
they can show us, and we can fully explain
that there are four ways in which beings are
born: egg birth, womb birth, damp birth,
and transformation birth. The types of birth—womb
birth, damp birth, and egg birth—are
those with
bodies visible to the naked eye. The
type of transformation birth is
invisible to the naked eye. Demons
are of the
transformation type, which is invisible to the naked eye.
Those who are knowledgeable and have learned
worldly knowledge also know this.  There are
four ways in which these beings are born,
dear fellow practitioners. So when they
ask that, we answer like that,
and our learning is
also based on our practical experience
in life. Here, we
see that Master Nāgasena taught that
this type of being is born through transformation, so it cannot have a crude physical body that we can see with the naked eye. Therefore, this type of demon is born through transformation;
when it dies, it cannot
leave behind a crude corpse
with visible substance. It is
very
subtle, so much so that our ordinary eyes
cannot see it. There are also
many things
we cannot see, for example,
bacteria,
viruses, which we cannot see. We need special
glasses created by scientists to
see them.
As for demons, we must use the
enlightenment of...  Those who practice spiritual cultivation, or those who
have a karmic connection with
certain spirits or demons, will see them,
just as we see
many people in this world who see ghosts and demons.
For example, they see ghosts walking
in their houses or in their yards.
These are very common occurrences in
stories told by people who
have a connection with spirits or demons. Those who practice spiritual cultivation
can
see many kinds of ghosts
and demons; it's not that they can't see them.
Science can also
see things that the naked eye can't
see through machines. Those who
practice spiritual cultivation
see spirits, deities, and
beings in other realms through their own
spiritual power or through a
rare karmic connection with
all beings in the
spiritual realm
from a previous life, due to a connection through the
mind-body contemplation. Please continue reading the Sutra of the
Manjushri and the Yaksha.  Depending on the karma
they have created, Yakshas can be reborn
as humans, deities, or even
grasshoppers, locusts, insects, birds, and
snakes. That is, after Yakshas die—that is, after their death, they are
reborn as ghosts, or they can be
reborn as
deities. In this cycle of reincarnation, they can be reborn as grasshoppers, or as
locusts, insects, birds, and snakes—there are many possibilities.
That is, when
these spirits, ghosts, and Yakshas end
their existence, they begin to be reborn in the six realms of reincarnation. (The text then continues with a
Buddhist scripture: "
When we perceive a
very strange, fragrant smell that is not
from flowers, fruits, or incense, or
when we smell a
foul odor that is not from dead animals, animal droppings, or
frogs, what
is it?" King Milinda asked the
venerable Na-sen, who replied, "Occasionally,
when our minds are in a state of purity, we
perceive fragrant or foul smells from...")  Those
beings with such subtle physical bodies, the
fragrant scent could be from celestial beings or longevity
gods, while the foul smell could be from
death, the filth, or the decay of demons,
ghosts, or yakshas surrounding them. "Your Majesty," said the
Venerable Na-tien, "today, we have
revealed to you a perspective
of the wise: that
when our minds are pure, if
we smell a fragrant scent, it may be
from celestial beings. If
we smell a foul, putrid, or
decaying odor, it may be
from a demon or the corpse of a
demon. Therefore, in
this section, the Venerable Na-tien also clearly stated that only
when our minds are pure can
we perceive this. So,
whether we can verify the
Buddha's teachings or not,
we must diligently practice the Dharma, diligently
cultivate meditation, and then we will have a
very interesting experience that
brings us joy."
That's something we experience
ourselves, and our faith in the
Buddha's teachings grows, giving rise to
joy and happiness.
Because of this,
practitioners are never sad because they experience
joys that are unavailable in this world.
For example, in
this world,
if we like a
beautiful shirt, we buy it,
wear it, and
feel very happy. But
when the shirt gets old,
we have to go find and buy a new one to experience that
feeling of happiness.
However, practitioners don't need
external things like clothes;
their joy and happiness
arise from their own stillness. Therefore,
in this life, we
experience happiness through what makes us
happy—that is, whatever makes us happy, we
feel happy. And for
practitioners...  They practice meditation,
and the joy and happiness
arise from within their hearts. They feel
happiness naturally. So, dear fellow practitioners, you see
that those who practice meditation don't necessarily seek
happiness by buying a new house, or by
owning a beautiful car, a beautiful
wife, or by having
successful children, or by achieving success themselves.
People in the world need
those things to be happy, but
to obtain them, they go through a
lot of tears and suffering. And
their joy is
fleeting; for example, the car
may become old, the house may become old, the wife
may change personality, the wife may grow old, and the
children may succeed or
fail. Therefore, their joy
is
subject to impermanence very quickly. Because they are
always searching for joy, they themselves
cause
suffering. The Buddha clearly taught about this.
That is why sentient beings...  The
lack of understanding of what joy is, the lack of
understanding of what joy truly is, the lack of understanding of
endless joy, and the lack of knowledge of how to find
joy and how to dwell in
happiness, the lack of understanding of how to find happiness—all
these beings keep searching and searching, only to find
things that don't truly bring joy, and
they continue like this. And they
suffer, and we are
such beings. But those who
practice the Buddha's teachings don't
seek happiness or
joy outside themselves; they will
generate joy through
their own meditation practice. Therefore,
they achieve happiness and
become saints and Buddhas. Here, the mind is focused on the complete contemplation, and
together with fellow practitioners,
we share the teachings from the scriptures so that
we can walk this path together.
Each person has their own circumstances, some go before, some
follow, but we all direct our
minds to understand clearly
that joy does not come from the
outside. All those who seek
joy...  From the outside, it means they are
seeking suffering, while all those who seek
joy from meditation within their hearts
will achieve that joy and will
experience the result of living in bliss. That is,
the joy that gradually comes from practice
will be a joy not
controlled by impermanence. As for all of us
who seek joy from
external success, we will never
achieve that joy. The mind's reflection, the perfect contemplation,
gives an example: imagine we are looking for
water to quench our thirst, but we
choose sand to drink, so we will
never quench our thirst. We see a
cup of water, we go to it, and
when we see the cup,
we think there is water inside.
At that moment, we feel joy, right, dear fellow
practitioners? For example, if we are thirsty and
see a cup in the distance,
we think there is water in the cup,
so our mind feels joy. But
when we go there and see
sand inside, we realize
we cannot drink it.
Therefore, when our joy fades, the
mind reflects on the
concept of "Complete Contemplation." Let's use a real-life example: For instance, we
think we'll buy a
new car, and we feel happy. In the
process, they look at the
cars on the road, they work hard every
day to accumulate money, and
today they save 100 million, tomorrow 30
million. At that moment,
they are happy because they see the car
about to be theirs.
But after owning the car, after only a
short time,
that joy disappears because they want another car.
So when they drive that car, they are no longer happy.
All those who have bought a car are
very happy at first,
but later they don't feel any joy
anymore. That is, the joy no longer arises
from the feeling in the mind.
Therefore, they
continue to search for something else. They are
happy when they haven't achieved it yet, but when they achieve it, the
joy disappears, and they continue to search and hope.
People seek other things to find joy, so they
seek worldly joy by looking for what they can see and
desire.
But once they achieve it, the joy disappears,
all joy vanishes. Let's take
this example: a person greatly desires
to be king, but once they become king,
they face many troubles, and it's
very difficult for them to give up kingship.
Why? Because when they become king,
they suffer. Their inner court is filled with
constant arguments and power struggles.
Even the court officials and ministers are incompetent; they
don't know who is
truly loyal, or
who might usurp their throne. They are constantly
worried,
anxious, and then they
worry about external threats,
the people, and bandits. So,
before becoming king, they only
wanted to be king, and that was the joy they felt.
But once they become king, they can
no longer experience joy.
Those things like food and drink are merely
desires.  The body's desires and
cravings are merely the body's demands,
but the mind is never truly happy or
joyful. That's
why we see that while we
search for happiness externally, we
never truly find it,
never truly grasp it. And
when they become kings,
they don't want to lose their throne,
not because being king brings
joy, but because losing it would bring shame and a
loss of reputation. This
feeling of losing reputation
causes them suffering, so they live for their
fame. Therefore, I, the enlightened mind,
share this with you, fellow practitioners,
so that
we may understand
this issue clearly and have faith in the
path we are treading. The path we are
heading towards is the true path to
grasping happiness, a happiness
that is not dependent on external things,
not controlled by impermanence, and the
happiness that the monks are experiencing.  Seeking
true happiness is about grasping happiness, dwelling
in happiness, and ending
all suffering. In reality, our desires
are for sensual pleasures, so
the more we crave and imagine them to be happiness, the
more suffering we experience. In
this article, the Venerable Master also shares
two points with you, dear fellow practitioners. The
first is to answer
those who, with their worldly knowledge and intellectual understanding, may question us about
demons and ghosts, asking
where they are or accusing
us of delusion when we say demons and ghosts exist.
We ourselves,
our own hearts and minds, know that they are
ignorant of the truth. The second point is that on
this path of seeking happiness,
we must go to
the direction of our pursuit of happiness, which
lies within our own hearts.
This direction will lead us to
true and wondrous understanding, which opens
within our own hearts, and we always strive
towards and praise it.  Those who have
walked this path to the destination and are heading
towards this path so that we too may
reach the destination, just as they have walked and they
are the ones who have attained enlightenment, the holy
monks, the Buddhas. Let
us, as Buddhists,
feel the gratitude to the Buddhas and the holy
monks who have helped us
know this path, and the gratitude to our
masters and the monks who are guiding
us to practice the Dharma so that we may
have a peaceful mind
and enlightenment
in the present and in the future. Of course,
our peaceful mind is called
peace for a moment, only a moment of tranquility, that is, peace and
stillness for a moment. To achieve
absolute peace and stillness, one must be an enlightened being. May all fellow practitioners be diligent. Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni. Let
us, as Buddhists, clasp our hands and
dedicate the merit,
wishing to direct
this merit
to all
disciples and
sentient beings so that they may all choose to attain Buddhahood.
[Music]
[Applause]